Wealthy parents are often concerned about the preservation of their hard-earned family fortunes for their children, and rightly so: research has shown that about 70% of young heirs end up failing as custodians of the family wealth, sometimes squandering it within a few years after inheritance. One way for your clients to protect their legacy for generations to come is by establishing a family trust. A discretionary trust, founded by one of the family members, can play an important role in protecting the family legacy in line with the overall family plan and long-term objectives. The trust deed should describe these objectives as well as the role the trust will play in achieving them. The family members can be the nominated beneficiaries, including the second and subsequent generations and any further trusts created for their benefit. The founder can appoint trustees who know the family dynamics and the individual family members, including their preferences (and even their vices). It’s important to also appoint an independent trustee with the necessary skill to manage trust affairs. Alongside these trustees, people can be appointed from the team of family advisers, which usually include an accountant, family lawyer, portfolio manager, wealth manager, fiduciary specialist, and tax adviser. They can ensure the family plan is executed over generations, and that everyone involved understands the family’s long-term objectives. Factors that need to be considered include: Trustees to represent the next generation, who can be one or more of the founder’s children, can be named in the founder’s will, or in the trust deed. The family advisers should ensure the children receive trustee training and understand the nature and workings of a discretionary trust. To ensure the trust will continue into perpetuity and won’t be terminated by the second generation due to family dynamics, the following aspects need to be taken into account: The advantages of setting up a discretionary trust include the following: If you need assistance with any of the above, including trustee training, contact Christine Bornman at christineb@privatewealth.sanlam.co.za. About the author: Christine Bornman is fiduciary and tax specialist at Sanlam Private Wealth. This article was paid for by Sanlam Private Wealth.