Health minister Zweli Mkhize has revealed the tough negotiations the government has faced with coronavirus vaccine manufacturers, and how they delayed the delivery of shots. He told parliament that the executive had a constitutional obligation to account to SA’s MPs, despite the non-disclosure demands made by vaccine makers. These negotiations had been lengthy and difficult, as vaccine manufacturers had at times sought onerous terms, not all of which the government had acceded to, he said. “As government, we have found ourselves in the precarious position of having to choose between saving our citizens’ lives and risking putting the country’s assets into private hands. With all the complexities of negotiating, I want to state upfront that our firm commitment throughout as government has been that we dare not neglect our constitutional obligation to protect the lives and health of our people,” he said. Responding to questions sent to him by the chair of parliament’s portfolio committee on health, Sibongiseni Dhlomo, the minister said two agreements had been negotiated with Johnson & Johnson (J&J), the first for 11-million doses of its single shot vaccine, and the second for a further 20-million doses. The government has also reached an agreement with Pfizer for 30-million doses of its double-shot jab. Both vaccines cost $10 a dose, he said. One of the main conditions required by both Pfizer and J&J was that they be indemnified from adverse events due to their vaccines, and that a no-fault compensation fund be established for paying claimants by April 30. The National Coronavirus Command Council had approved draft regulations for the establishment of this fund on Tuesday, for which there would be a five-day public comment period, said Mkhize. The fund would guarantee citizens had recourse should they be harmed. It would be mainly funded by the government, and would be chaired by retired chief justice Sandile Ngcobo, who headed the Competition Commission’s health market inquiry, he said. The minister said J&J had recently demanded a letter from the minister of trade, industry and competition expressing support for the investment it had made in local pharmaceutical manufacturer Aspen Pharmacare before it signed off on the second agreement. “We have been taken aback by this as there are clauses in the agreement that express this support. J&J has now told us that if we don’t give them this letter we are making their global leadership nervous and to them we have not shown our political will to support them. I mention this to illustrate some of the difficult and sometimes unreasonable terms or preconditions we have had to navigate through. I can assure you we have not been sleeping on the job, he said. Pfizer too had demanded terms that the government deemed too risky, he said. For example, it wanted sole discretion to determine additional terms and guarantees for the government to fulfil its indemnity obligations. “This condition posed a potential risk to our assets and the fiscus. After intense negotiations, Pfizer finally conceded to removing this problematic term,” he said. Both agreements contained clauses saying down payments made to the vaccine manufacturers would not be refunded under any circumstances. The government had conceded to these terms, which had been instituted in other jurisdictions, he said. The minister said Pfizer had provided a weekly delivery schedule for the second quarter for the first 20-million doses ordered by the government, starting with 325,260 doses of vaccine on May 3. The weekly delivery would remain the same size until May 31, when it would almost double to 636,480 doses and would then remain the same size until the end of June. A total of 1.937-million doses were expected in May, and 2.547-million in June, he said. The latest 10-million doses ordered by the government would be provided in the second and third quarters, he said. kahnt@businesslive.co.za