Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the lifeblood of Africa. They play a crucial role in its growth, providing employment, stoking new economies, and connecting the continent to the rest of the world. As the heartbeat of SA’s GDP, SMEs drive real growth and are estimated to provide employment to roughly 47% of the workforce, with their total economic output accounting for about 20% of GDP. These businesses are owned by our neighbours, family and friends and they touch our lives every day, often in small ways but sometimes in grand, immeasurable ways. Their impact makes for incredible stories of tangible, sustainable growth that form part of Standard Bank’s new business banking marketing campaign. The campaign tagline: “SA banks on business. Business banks on us”​ speaks to real stories, about real business, and the real, life-changing impact they have on people’s lives. Watch the video below: Standard Bank has collaborated with some of its business clients to tell their stories and show how it has helped them grow. The bank will be delving into the histories of the businesses, celebrating their resilience, and honouring how they continue to change the lives of the people who work for them and the communities in which they operate. These stories will showcase how these businesses employ people, empowering them and their families, and helping their children get an education. They will highlight how businesses provide the impetus for growth and bring families and communities out of poverty, and how they drive economic activity and combat socioeconomic challenges. In times of uncertainty, businesses want partners that bring them certainty, reliability and excellence when it comes to service. But, importantly, they also deserve partners who understand their needs and are committed to helping them achieve their goals. Standard Bank supports many SMEs ​with banking solutions, trade assistance, market access, transcontinental networking platforms, and more. Its business banking offering is an ecosystem of innovative products designed to meet even the most complex needs. It cuts across sectors and provides clients with access to funding, expertise and advice, digital integration, trade solutions and insurance coverage. The bank says it’s invested in driving Africa’s growth, and that they know that being a bank is no longer enough. Standard Bank says it needs to be an integral and indispensable enabler of its clients aspirations, priding itself in partnering with their clients, providing value along their life journey, building and maintaining trust, servicing first, and selling second. The stories, which make up the new campaign show how finding the right partner can help businesses succeed, and highlight how successful businesses affect society exponentially. Every day, Standard Bank partners with businesses to help them unlock their growth, no matter the economic climate. Visit the Standard Bank website for more information. This article was paid for by Standard Bank Business Banking.